and we'll continue to follow this deal
for certain I do at this point they'll
want to revisit the comments that you
made with me a couple of weeks ago
comments that at least on Twitter went
viral we mentioned more than 10 million
views I think we're up to 10 and a half
million right now I'd like to rewatch
part of that exchange Chamath and then I
want to react to it on the other side
just you keep saying propping up zombie
companies are you are you arguing to let
Airlines for example fail yes why I mean
how does that make sense in the broader
scheme of the economy because it's not
because when you look at what it means
this is why I'm saying like this is a
lie that's been purported by Wall Street
when a company fails it does not fire
their employees it goes through a
package bankruptcy right if anything
what happens is the people who have the
pensions inside those companies the
employees of these companies end up
owning more of the company the people
that get wiped out are the speculators
that own the unsecured tranches of debt
or the folks that own the equity and by
the way those are the rules of the game
that's right because these are the
people that purport to be the most
sophisticated investors in the world
they deserve to get wiped out but the
employees don't get wiped out the
pensions don't typically get like why
does anybody do that
just understand why does anybody deserve
using your word to get wiped out from a
crisis created like like this how does
anybody deserve to get wiped out but
just be clear like who are we talking
about we're talking about a hedge fund
that serves a bunch of billionaire
family offices who cares let them get
wiped out who cares they don't get the
summer in the Hamptons
who cares all right so that was a couple
weeks ago and there's a lot in there and
I want to go through some of it but you
use you know statements like the Ally
purported by Wall Street you talked
about the speculators and you go after
hedge funds but here you are Chamath on
a day where you're doing an IPO at the
New York Stock Exchange raising hundreds
of millions of dollars essentially
selling this IPO and marketing it to the
very speculators that you
rail against and I'm wondering how you
can square how you square that on a day
like today and this is the perfect day
to have that conversation well I mean
the first thing I would say is that's
not true
you know there are all kinds of
different kinds of hedge funds and
investment vehicles and what I will tell
you is that a lot of my time in IPO a
and again an IPO C was curating the list
of investors that you know I would work
with and when I look at the list of
people that I essentially allowed into
the deal at the amount said that they
did these are because these are folks
that have proven to be long-dated
thoughtful people who can take risk but
understand businesses look let's shift
the topic for one second and we can come
back to this what I want to talk about
is why I made the comments that I did
and why it touched such a nerve there is
an interesting facts thought that you
should know which is that since 2009 the
500 companies in the S&P 500 so these
are the 500 best companies in the world
they bought back seven trillion dollars
of stock and or issue dividends okay
though that turned out to be ninety more
than ninety cents of every single dollar
of profit that they made over the last
11 plus years the federal government as
well as the Fed between monetary and
fiscal stimulus combined have
essentially transferred around seven
trillion dollars now back to those said
companies as well as you know companies
slightly smaller than them and I think
why I was frustrated is that I just
think that that kind of behavior makes
no sense and instead of being punished
it has been rewarded and if you ask me
why here's how I would explain it the
job of a CEO especially of a public
for-profit company is to be a fabulous
allocator of resources and there are
only two kinds of resources that a CEO
controls that matter
the first is human capital right the
people that work inside of your company
and the ideas that they have and the
products that they make
second is financial capital the money
that you take to invest in great ideas
to protect for the future to prepare for
whether it's a pandemic or a shock or a
recession or a competitor and the best
capital allocators become the best CEOs
so if you take a company like Facebook
or Google there are very capital asset
like business so a lot of their skill is
in picking great people so takes up
he picked Sheryl Sandberg he picked me
he put us in positions to build that
business he's a fabulous human capital
allocator on the other end of the
spectrum take buffett he has no human
capital inside a berkshire it's all
financial capital but he's a fabulous
Capital ality or you take Jeff Bezos the
case in the middle where he has both of
those two things in all cases great CEOs
are great allocators of capital when you
do things like buybacks and dividends
what you are essentially saying is
you're throwing your hands up in the air
and declaring to the world I do not know
what to do with this money and instead
of deciding to save that money to try to
do M&A to try to invest in R&D to pay
your employees more these people have
given it back in an open market purchase
now let's look at that for a second why
is that a stupid idea well it's a stupid
idea for two reasons the first is that
it disproportionately only benefits the
executives and the CEO and the board
because those are the ones that
disproportionately get most of the stock
inside of a company and it
disproportionately benefits those
specific hedge funds that were agitating
for that behavior in activity who take a
short term position and allow themselves
to participate in short-term profits and
now what happens is the people that
believe least in the company ie the
people that sell the stock get rewarded
and then who's left holding the bag the
people that believe in the business
let's take a specific example Scott and
you can see how bad this is
IBM over the last you know decade has
spent a hundred and forty billion
dollars on buybacks this is a company
with a hundred billion dollar market cap
the last CEO found a way to oversee 24
consecutive orders of revenue decline
and
that was still able to compensate
herself a hundred million dollars of
stock-based cop
now you look at all of this kind of
behavior and you can say how is this
supported why aren't all these companies
trying to figure out how to be more
resilient and it turns out that the
incentives were so skewed away from
being resilient it was only focused on
short-term profiteering for the sake of
the managerial plastic and the hedge
funds around that's of nobody else
you